# scrub
A UI control for scrubbing through surveillance footage.

## Initial Thoughts
My initial thought was to simply implement the timeline as a single long view inside of a scrollview. I immediately saw some short-commings with this solution. Any changes to the data whether updating existing data or adding new data would require the entire timeline to be redrawn. While I don't believe the the length of the view for 30 days would be too memory intensive, it would be bigger than needed, and it's not really a scalable solution. What if we wanted to scrub through a year, or 5 years? Also, if we wanted to change the way the view is drawn, it seemed this would take more work than necessary. Not a great solution.

## Collection View
My next thoughts were to implement the timeline as a series of segments. Each segment could be a small view that was only responsible for drawing a small portion of the timeline. This view would not need to be aware of any other views or any data not relevant to its small part of the timeline. These views would be lined up end to end in order to create the timeline. In this way we would only need to draw what is on the screen and could reuse the views to minimize our memory usage. It seemed to make sense that the best way to line up views and remove/reuse them would be to use a collection view and implement the views as collection view cells.

## Collection View Cell
Each cell should be given a segment of time. It should be able to draw the timeline, any events, and anything else that is needed. It should be be replaceable, meaning a future implementation of the cell can completely change the way that the timeline is drawn. Ideally the cell can be resized and redraw in order to zoom in/out.

## Data Transformation
I considered transforming the data that I received to something more consistent. There are trade-offs both to using data as is and transforming it to something the app dictates. I generally favor data transformation as I see it having more long term benefits. If the data the server provides changes in the future, you can just write a new transformation and the rest of the app can generally go unchanged. In this cas I thought about arranging the app data into 1 hour blocks with each block containing segments of recording times/gaps that make up that block. Having the data uniform in this way might facilitate the layout of the scrubber, allowing each cell to take a single block of time and be a uniform size. However, a drawback of data transformation is the upfront cost of transforming the data. Due to the time contstraints of the project I ultimately chose not to transform the data and consume it as is. This means that each cell will represent a recording segment or gap. Thus each cell will need to be a different size. The width of the cell will most likely be a function of the length of recording time/gap and some some point-per-hour contstant that I come up with. Changing that constant could allow me to zoom the timeline as well.
